README.md, before:

# BitTask - Decentralized Microgigs Marketplace

**BitTask** is a decentralized tasks marketplace built on **Stacks (Bitcoin L2)**. It enables users to post tasks with rewards paid in STX or sBTC, and allows workers to complete these tasks and get paid trustlessly via smart contracts.

![Stacks](https://img.shields.io/badge/Stacks-Blockchain-blueviolet?style=flat-square) ![Clarity](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Clarity-orange?style=flat-square) ![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue?style=flat-square)

## 🏗 System Architecture

The project consists of a Clarity smart contract (`bittask`) that manages the state of all tasks and holds funds in escrow. Users interact with the contract directly or through a Next.js frontend application.

```mermaid
graph TD
    User[Task Creator]
    Worker[Freelancer]
    
    subgraph Stacks_Blockchain [Stacks Blockchain]
        Contract[bittask.clar]
        State[Contract State]
    end
    
    subgraph Storage [On-Chain Storage]
        Tasks[Tasks Map]
        Nonce[Task Nonce]
    end

    User -- "Create Task (Lock STX)" --> Contract
    Worker -- "Accept & Submit Work" --> Contract
    User -- "Approve Work (Release STX)" --> Contract
    
    Contract -- Read/Write --> Tasks
    Contract -- Read/Write --> Nonce
    Contract -- Updates --> State
```

## 🔄 Workflow

The lifecycle of a task follows a linear flow from creation to completion or dispute.

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Open: create-task
    
    state Open {
        [*] --> InProgress: accept-task
    }
    
    InProgress --> Submitted: submit-work
    Submitted --> Completed: approve-work
    
    state Completed {
        [*] --> FundsReleased
        note right of FundsReleased
          Creator approves
          Worker gets paid
        end note
    }
    
    Completed --> [*]
```

## ✨ Features

- **Create Tasks**: Users can post tasks with a title, description, deadline, and STX reward.
- **Trustless Escrow**: Funds are locked in the smart contract upon task creation, ensuring the creator cannot withhold payment arbitrarily.
- **Automated Bookkeeping**: The contract tracks the status, assignees, and history of every task.
- **Transparency**: All task data and payment flows are publicly verifiable on the Stacks blockchain.
- **Security**: Leveraging Bitcoin's security through the Stacks Proof of Transfer (PoX) mechanism.

## 🛠 Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18+)
- [Clarinet](https://github.com/hirosystems/clarinet) (for local smart contract dev)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

## 🚀 Installation

1.  **Clone the repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Cyberking99/BitTask.git
    cd BitTask
    ```

2.  **Install Frontend Dependencies**
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Configure Environment Variables**
    Create a `.env.local` file in the `frontend` directory:
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    echo "NEXT_PUBLIC_STACKS_NETWORK=testnet" > .env.local
    ```
    
    Set `NEXT_PUBLIC_STACKS_NETWORK` to `testnet` for development or `mainnet` for production.

## 🧪 Testing

This project uses Vitest with `vitest-environment-clarinet` for comprehensive unit testing.

To run the tests:

```bash
cd contracts
npm install
npm test
```

## 📜 Deployment

The project includes scripts to facilitate deployment to the Stacks network (Testnet/Mainnet).

1.  **Configure Environment**
    Ensure your `Clarinet.toml` and settings files are set up.

2.  **Run Deploy Script**
    ```bash
    clarinet deploy --config Clarinet.toml --settings settings/Testnet.toml
    ```

## 💻 Usage

### Smart Contract Functions

| Function | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `create-task` | Public | Creates a new task with title, description, reward, and deadline. |
| `get-task` | Read-Only | Retrieves details of a specific task. |
| `get-nonce` | Read-Only | Retrieves the current total number of tasks. |
| `accept-task` | Public | Assigns a worker to an open task. |
| `submit-work` | Public | Submits proof of work for a task in progress. |
| `approve-work` | Public | Approves submitted work and releases payment to worker. |

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`).
3.  Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`).
4.  Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`).
5.  Open a Pull Request.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

docs: polish root README.md with references

README.md, after:

# BitTask - Decentralized Microgigs Marketplace

**BitTask** is a decentralized tasks marketplace built on **Stacks (Bitcoin L2)**. It enables users to post tasks with rewards paid in STX or sBTC, and allows workers to complete these tasks and get paid trustlessly via smart contracts.

![Stacks](https://img.shields.io/badge/Stacks-Blockchain-blueviolet?style=flat-square) ![Clarity](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Clarity-orange?style=flat-square) ![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue?style=flat-square)

## 🏗 System Architecture

The project consists of a Clarity smart contract (`bittask`) that manages the state of all tasks and holds funds in escrow. Users interact with the contract directly or through a Next.js frontend application.

```mermaid
graph TD
    User[Task Creator]
    Worker[Freelancer]
    
    subgraph Stacks_Blockchain [Stacks Blockchain]
        Contract[bittask.clar]
        State[Contract State]
    end
    
    subgraph Storage [On-Chain Storage]
        Tasks[Tasks Map]
        Nonce[Task Nonce]
    end

    User -- "Create Task (Lock STX)" --> Contract
    Worker -- "Accept & Submit Work" --> Contract
    User -- "Approve Work (Release STX)" --> Contract
    
    Contract -- Read/Write --> Tasks
    Contract -- Read/Write --> Nonce
    Contract -- Updates --> State
```

## 🔄 Workflow

The lifecycle of a task follows a linear flow from creation to completion or dispute.

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Open: create-task
    
    state Open {
        [*] --> InProgress: accept-task
    }
    
    InProgress --> Submitted: submit-work
    Submitted --> Completed: approve-work
    
    state Completed {
        [*] --> FundsReleased
        note right of FundsReleased
          Creator approves
          Worker gets paid
        end note
    }
    
    Completed --> [*]
```

## ✨ Features

- **Create Tasks**: Users can post tasks with a title, description, deadline, and STX reward.
- **Trustless Escrow**: Funds are locked in the smart contract upon task creation, ensuring the creator cannot withhold payment arbitrarily.
- **Automated Bookkeeping**: The contract tracks the status, assignees, and history of every task.
- **Transparency**: All task data and payment flows are publicly verifiable on the Stacks blockchain.
- **Security**: Leveraging Bitcoin's security through the Stacks Proof of Transfer (PoX) mechanism.

## 🛠 Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18+)
- [Clarinet](https://github.com/hirosystems/clarinet) (for local smart contract dev)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

## 🚀 Installation

1.  **Clone the repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Cyberking99/BitTask.git
    cd BitTask
    ```

2.  **Install Frontend Dependencies**
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Configure Environment Variables**
    Create a `.env.local` file in the `frontend` directory:
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    echo "NEXT_PUBLIC_STACKS_NETWORK=testnet" > .env.local
    ```
    
    Set `NEXT_PUBLIC_STACKS_NETWORK` to `testnet` for development or `mainnet` for production.


## 🧪 Testing

Detailed testing instructions for smart contracts can be found in [contracts/README.md](contracts/README.md).

## 📜 Deployment

The project includes scripts to facilitate deployment to the Stacks network (Testnet/Mainnet).

1.  **Configure Environment**
    Ensure your `Clarinet.toml` and settings files are set up.

2.  **Run Deploy Script**
    ```bash
    clarinet deploy --config Clarinet.toml --settings settings/Testnet.toml
    ```

## 💻 Usage

### Smart Contract Functions

| Function | Type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `create-task` | Public | Creates a new task with title, description, reward, and deadline. |
| `get-task` | Read-Only | Retrieves details of a specific task. |
| `get-nonce` | Read-Only | Retrieves the current total number of tasks. |
| `accept-task` | Public | Assigns a worker to an open task. |
| `submit-work` | Public | Submits proof of work for a task in progress. |
| `approve-work` | Public | Approves submitted work and releases payment to worker. |

See [Frontend Documentation](frontend/README.md) for UI components and usage.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## 📋 Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for recent updates.
